hey this is Preston Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions all of the
problems in this video are based on
India's je e main test which is a
precursor to the exam to get admission
into IIT students have about one in half
minutes per question see how many you
can solve problem one the integral from
2 to 4 of the square root of x all over
the square root of 6 minus X plus the
square root of x problem 2 the integral
from 0 to PI over 2 of the square root
of sine of X all over the square root of
sine of X plus the square root of cosine
of X problem 3 the integral from the
cube root of log of 3 to the cube root
of the log of 4 the numerator is x
squared multiplied by the sine of X
cubed and the denominator is the sine of
x cubed plus the sine of the quantity
log of 12 minus X cubed these are all
tricky problems pause the video if you'd
like to give them a try and when you're
ready keep watching to learn how to
solve these problems in seconds
[Music]
there's an incredible technique to solve
all of these problems quickly the
integral from A to B of f of X all over
F of a plus B minus X plus f of X is
equal to B minus a all over 2 I learned
about this on the YouTube channel they
done through je the proof is at the end
of the video and we're going to assume
things like the function f is well
defined from the interval A to B but on
the exam you're gonna get normal
functions so you can go ahead and apply
this formula so let's use this formula
to solve the problems let's consider
this first integral let's write f of X
is equal to the square root of x this is
there in the numerator and it's also
there in the denominator now square root
of 6 minus X will exactly be equal to f
of a plus B minus X this interval
therefore follows this formula exactly
and we can then evaluate it as B minus a
over 2 so this answer will be equal to 4
minus 2 all over 2 and the answer is 1
incredible we solve this complicated
integral very simply using this formula
let's consider this next integral it
again fits this formula but just a
little bit trickier to see let's write f
of X is equal to the square root of sine
of X we have that in the numerator and
the denominator what about the square
root of cosine of X well if you think
about it this is exactly equal to f of
PI over 2 minus X so we again fit this
template and we can evaluate this
integral as B minus a over 2 so it'll be
equal to PI over 2 minus 0 all over 2
and this simplifies to be PI over 4
incredible we solved another tricky
integral with this formula now what
about this final integral we can't apply
the formula right away we'll do a
substitution let's write U is equal to X
cubed D U will be 3
squared DX we divide both sides by three
to get d u over three is equal to x
squared DX so we can substitute in for x
squared DX D u over 3 we then factor
this 1/3 out of the integral now let's
do this substitution U is equal to X
cubed it'll simplify the limits of
integration and the arguments of the
functions we're pretty much ready to
apply the formula but we just need one
more observation if f of U is equal to
sine of U then F of a plus B minus U is
equal to sine of log of 3 plus log of 4
minus u we can simplify this because log
of 3 plus log of 4 is equal to the log
of 3 times 4 which is equal to log of 12
the integral therefore exactly fits our
formula we can evaluate the integral
part using B minus a over 2 so the
integral will be log of 4 minus log of 3
all over 2 which simplifies to be log of
4 over 3 all over 2 and now we need to
remember to multiply this by 1/3 so the
final answer will be one-sixth
multiplied by the log of 4/3 and we've
solved this incredibly complicated
integral very easily so now we want to
do a quick proof of why this formula is
true let's suppose that this integral is
equal to I will do a substitution that U
is equal to a plus B minus X D Y will
equal negative D X so the integral
becomes the following again this will be
equal to I because we've done a change
of variables notice the limits of
integration have flipped we'll flip them
back and that will cancel out with this
negative now notice that we have the
variable U this is a dummy variable and
we'll replace it with the variable X so
we have two different integrals that are
equal to I let's add these up together
the result will be 2i and on the
left-hand side it'll be the sum of these
functions going from A to B well the sum
of these function
will exactly cancel out this is equal to
one so we have the integral of one from
A to B and that will be equal to B minus
a so I is equal to B minus a over two
and that's exactly what we wanted to
prove that this formula is equal to B
minus a over two and we proved it
remember this technique and you'll solve
many integrals in seconds thanks for
watching and for making major decisions
one of the best channels on YouTube
thanks for watching and thanks for your
support
[Music]